# Fecal transplant allows transmission of the gut microbiota in honey bees

We combined quantitative PCR and amplicon sequencing to compare the bacterial composition in the feces and gut of honey bees collected from four different hives (generation no. 1), as well as in the gut of bees inoculated with the feces or gut homogenates of bees from generation no. 1 (generation no. 2). We found that the fecal microbiota is strikingly similar to the gut microbiota and that its inoculation to newborn microbiota-free bees allows the successful colonisation of their gut by all bacterial members of the gut microbiota. 
In the present repository, we provide all data, metadata and codes needed to reproduce the analyses of the published study. The dataset containing quantitative PCR results for all samples is named “Metadata_fecesproject” and saved both in .xls and .txt format. Raw amplicon sequences can be found on NCBI Sequence Read Archive under accession PRJNA1047120. The script for amplicon-sequencing and quantitative PCR data analysis is the R markdown file. Set paths within .md files to match the location of the downloaded files on your local drive. The SILVA reference database should be downloaded from: https://zenodo.org/record/3986799#.YcW1qy1h2gQ. The phyloseq object “ps” can be used to start directly with the statistical analyses.

Reference publication
Cabirol A, Chhun A, Liberti J, Kesner L, Neuschwander N, Schaerli Y, Engel P. (2024) Fecal transplant allows transmission of the gut microbiota in honey bees. mSphere 9:e00262-24. https://doi.org/10.1128/msphere.00262-24
